Disclaimer: This advice is not for technical interviews. If you're preparing for software interviews, go read Programming Interviews Exposed.

These following points are relevant for product management, investment banking, or consulting sort of interviews.

Figure out your story. You should be able to give a 30-second pitch about who you are and why you're interviewing for this job at this company. If asked to elaborate, you should be able to fill in additional supporting details for your main story line. Ideally, these supporting details will be corroborated by items on your resume, whether previous work experience or other activities. 

Tip: Make a checklist of particular skills or experiences of yours that you want to highlight, and think about stories that convey them. Remember this mental checklist and during the interview, make sure you're hitting all the key points. At the very end, sometimes the interviewer will ask if there's anything else you want to say. This is your chance to talk about anything awesome about you that you intended to convey but haven't yet. 

The gist of all this is that you should be able to sell yourself.

Do your homework on the company and the position. Know what the company does and what you would be doing if you got the job. At a minimum you should look at the company's website and review the job posting, but it's even better if you can talk to people who actually work there. Reach out to your network -- check Facebook or LinkedIn to see if anyone in your immediate network works there, or if there is anyone one degree of separation out. Don't be afraid to ask for a coffee chat so you can ask what they think of the company, if they have any tips for the job interview, or anything else you should know. You can also ask for more references to chase; it's useful to talk to multiple people to get different perspectives.

Do mock interviews and practice questions. You should absolutely do practice interviews and questions. The second time you tell a story is always better than the first, because you've worked out the wording, the plot buildup and punchline. Your answers to interview questions will be the same way.

If you have access to a professional development center, schedule a mock interview for yourself. If not, ask a friend to interview you. You can get practice questions online or in Vault Guides, Wetfeet, or similar books. 

Another good exercise is to write down all your answers to common questions. "What are top three strengths?", "Describe a team experience you've had", "What are you proudest of?", "Where do you want to be in 5 years?", etc.

Be well-rested. This is one of those annoying pieces of advice that people give for all manner of things in the way of interviews, standardized testing, etc., that seems like it's not that important but actually is. If you are well-rested and chipper, you will feel better, answer questions better, and connect better with the interviewer. In the end, it's a pretty subjective test -- do what you can to make a good impression.
  
Written 6 Apr, 2010.
Upvote153
Downvote
CommentShare3
Matt Wyndowe
Matt Wyndowe, Interviewed for dozens of jobs... (more)
199 upvotes by Tracy Chou, Rishi Natarajan, Eric Schoonover, (more)
I find the best way to effectively prep for an interview is to have answers to the below five questions. Having good answers to these questions will ensure that you have done your research adequately.

1. Walk me through your resume.
Have a succinct answer to this (2-3 minutes). You can start with the "headline". e.g., "If you look at my experiences to date, you'll see that I'm very focused on building exciting, user-focused products in a scalable way."  Make sure your answer has some interesting stories.

2. Why do you want this job?
A good way to structure this answer is in two parts. First, why you want to work for the company and are passionate about the mission / business. Second, why you think the role in particular is a good fit.

3. Why should we hire you?
One effective structure for an answer goes something like this: "From what I understand about the company and role, it seems you are looking for someone with x, y, z. If you look at my experience and interests, I think you'll find strengths in all three of these areas. For example, ..."

4. Give some examples of when you have done [skill they are looking for] in the past.
Prepare 2 or 3 interesting stories about when you've demonstrated a similar  project in the past. People see past success as an indicator.

5. Do you have any questions?
If you haven't already, get the interviewers background. Have two or three insightful questions about the company, which demonstrate why you are passionate about the place.


Things to remember (before, after, and during the interview):
- Be passionate about the company. This is so important. Resist the urge to be aloof and cool.
- Be interested in the interviewer. 
- Be positive.
- Be honest.
- Relax and have fun.
- Be thankful for people's time.
- Remember that all you can do is give it 100%. If you try as hard as you can and still don't get the offer, that's life.
  
Updated 8 Apr, 2010.
Upvote199
Downvote
Comments2Share4
Yinso Chen
Yinso Chen, Writing a book on interviews -... (more)
27 upvotes by Elynn Lee, Aleksandr Blekh, Mallika Mathur, (more)
To prepare successfully for an interview, you need to first understand what the real purpose of interview is.

Most people go into interview thinking that it's about them getting a job. But there is another side to the story that's often missing - the interviewer's. 

Why are they looking to hire someone? It's because they have a need to be filled, a problem to be solved. They will hire the person that best meet *their* needs.

Hence, the best way to approach interview is to think from the interviewer's side, and make sure that you are the best candidate for them!

Know your enemy and yourself, and you can fight a hundred battles and be victorious in all of them.

-- Sun Tzu, Art of War




Sun Tzu's point is extremely applicable to interviews, and you can apply it in the following way to help you target your preparation.

Research

This is the know your enemy part. 

Learn all you can about the company, the industry, and the interviewers - yes, d you know who they are? If not, you should find out.

Based on the above knowledge, you should be able to answer the following questions

What problems are likely facing this company? And what solutions are they looking for?
What culture does the company have? What type of people are best fit for that culture?
What skill set will be beneficial to them?
What are the backgrounds of the interviewers? And based on the background, what type of questions are they likely to ask?
etc.

Refresh

This is the know yourself part.

Go through all your experiences, and determine which part are the relevant experiences to the interview. Directly applicable is the best, but look for indirectly applicable if your direct experience is limited. 

List them out and categorize them by applicability. And answer the question, why are they applicable.

Synthesize

The above steps gather the "raw data" for the interview, and you should take it one step further to synthesize them together into the interview format, i.e. answering questions.

When you are answering the questions, always keep in mind that each answer needs to be selling, i.e. not just providing the facts, but always tie back to how is this relevant to the company.

Below are some common interview questions that you'll be expected to answer - practice them with the approach of "selling"

Tell me about yourself - your "refresh" list will come in handy
What's your biggest strength - remember, sell!
What's your biggest weakness - the key is, show that you have overcome that weakness, and you can do it for the company too!
Why should we hire you? Talk about selling ;)
Tell me when you <encounter a problem>, what <did you do> - these are called behavioral questions. Answer the question, but make sure to bring it home by showing how you have solved/overcome the problem, and make it relevant to the company as much as possible (this would depend on the question)
etc.

Practice

It'll be a shame that if you put in all the above effort but go into the interview cold. The way to remedy that is to practice.

Yes, that means mock interviews. Get a few mock interviews going so you are warmed up for your interview.

See Yinso Chen's answer to What are the best ways to handle a job interview handled by a panel of five or so? for more details on mock interviews.

Ensure the mock interviews is focused on feedback and incorporation of the feedback. The more you do, the better you'll get, and the more you'll be ready.
  
Written 14 Sep, 2013.
Upvote27
Downvote
CommentShare2
Manas J Saloi
Manas J Saloi, BITSian currently working as a... (more)
351 upvotes by Bruno Santos, Ritesh Chaturvedi, Baris Baser, (more)
I have written this answer based on my personal experiences. It may be a bit biased towards Computer Science freshers preparing for campus interviews in India as I just passed out in 2013.

Credentials : Will soon be working for my 5th company ( Including internships and full time employment ) + Getting kicked out from a lot of Job interviews in the final rounds.


Preparation for the Written Round


1. Start by preparing specifically for the companies you are sitting for. As for example Mu Sigma, Capillary, Latent View, Sabre Holdings ( i.e the Analytics companies ) are going to focus more on maths, puzzles and your resourcefulness than your knowledge of core subjects. While some Software companies  will require a good knowledge of OOPs especially Java.  Almost all coding profiles though will test in depth your algorithm writing skills. 


2. Companies want the candidates to be proficient in at least one programming language. Pick the language of your choice and learn to code all sort of programs using it.


3. Check the Glassdoor reviews about the interview process of the companies. Most of them paint an accurate picture about what you are going to face. Read about the interview process of other candidates and try to gain some insights into which subjects the interviewers of that particular company most focus on.

.
4. Google for past placement papers of the company you will be sitting for next. It seems unimportant but let me tell you a secret. Most of the companies have a standard set of questions which they repeat throughout the whole Placement session wherever they go. I am not saying mug the standard answers. I am just saying get a general idea about the type of questions that they ask.


5. Now that you have a rough idea about the whole thing it is time to focus on individual subjects. Data Structures, Algorithms, Operating Systems are the subjects most interviewers focus on.  For DSA if possible read the Corman book( standard reference book on Structures and Algoritms for most good colleges in India). As one of my friend said ‘its the biggest investment you are going to make in our college time and which will yield more returns for you than any other thing you do during college’. Try to perfect all your core subjects but focus on Structures and Algorithms most apart from Operating Systems.


6.  When you are done with all these and you still have got time, it is never late to call a few seniors( who are working at the company you are trying to get into) and ask about their own experiences. If you have a good network of friends it wont be hard to find a senior who guides you.
